# PhoneCatalogApp

This project was made with Node.js, MongoDB, Postman and React.

# How to run the App?

1. First you need to start MongoDB (mongod).

2. Open your system cmd and find the backend folder via cd.

3. Once inside the folder you must use the npm start command
(for this you must have Node.js installed).

4. Once nodemon is running and the message "Conexion Exitosa" appears in the console, the port for backend functions is 3900 as indicated in the http line that appears below the previous message.

5. With the backend running, it is time to send the data you want to send to the API, so you must know the get, post, upload and delete routes (in my case I used Postman to perform these actions, so the following instructions will be using this program).

6. To get all the JSON objects from our backend we will use the route: http://localhost:3900/api/articles and the get option.

7. To add the objects that we will show in the app we use
the path: http://localhost:3900/api/save
In order to add objects you must select Body and check the option x-www-form-urlencoded. Later you must add the keys used in the bakend, which are and must be in this order:

-title

-price

-description

-color

In the values part you must add the information of the product that you want to add in my case it was something like this:

-iPhone 12

-$1,099 USD

-The A14 Bionic chip, the fastest in a smartphone. An edge-to-edge OLED screen. A new Ceramic Shield front, four times more resistant to falls. Also, Night mode now comes on all cameras. The iPhone 12 has it all.

-Red

With these fields filled you must select the POST option and then send to send the data (At this moment to check if everything is ok you should try using the get url from step 6 and it should show you the information you just entered).

8. If everything went well you should have the first element of the generated JSON, so you must generate another one to continue (that is, repeat the process of the previous step and check in the same way that you now have 2 objects).

9. Having your two objects ready, it is time to add the images, so for this step you must have the images you want to use saved on your PC.
To add the images you must now use the following configuration:

POST method

Select Body and check the form-data option.

10. The url you will use for this is: http://localhost:3900/api/upload-image/
after that last / you must put the id of the JSON object to which you want to add the image. (This id can be obtained using the GET method explained above).
an example of how your url should be: http://localhost:3900/api/upload-image/621961d9a01aa0d2964f3da7

11. Ready, now you just have to enter the Key "file0" and define it in the button on the side as file, in the value box you must select the image of the cell phone that you entered information previously and finally press send.
If everything went well you should see that the image attribute of your JSON object changed from null to an autogenerated name and also in your backend folder within the uploads folder this photo you sent should be saved.

12. This previous step must be done again keeping the key file0 with the second object of your JSON.

13. By now you should have 2 JSON objects and each one with an image.

14. Before starting the app you must make some modifications to the code so that the app works correctly, for this you must open the app project in your code editor and we will concentrate on the Articles.js, ArticlesInfo.js and ArticlesInfo2 files:

- First in Articles.js, in the "if" of line 31 you must change the id after the === to the id of your first JSON object inside "" (for this you can use the GET method explained at the beginning ). You must do the same thing in the if of line 53 but introducing the id of your second object.

- After modifying those two if, in the file ArticlesInfo.js and ArticlesInfo2.js in line 30 you must modify the id as you did before, but in ArticlesInfo.js you must enter the id of your first JSON object and in ArticlesInfo2 .js the id of your second JSON object.

-Save the changes of the three js files.

15. It is time to start our app, for this you must open another window of your cmd (IMPORTANT NOT TO CLOSE THE BACKEND NOR THE MONGO ONE).

16. First you must find the phone-app folder using the cd command indicating the path where you saved it. Once inside the folder, run npm start, if everything goes well it should auto-generate the window in your browser with the app.

17. If you did all of the above correctly, the app should run correctly.
